North Korea’s leader, Kim   said on Sunday that his
country was making final preparations to conduct its first test of an
intercontinental ballistic missile  —   a bold statement less than a month
before the inauguration of   Donald J. Trump. Although <location>North
Korea</location> has conducted five nuclear tests in the last decade and more
than 20 ballistic missile tests in 2016 alone, and although it habitually
threatens to attack the <location>United States</location> with nuclear
weapons, the country has never   an intercontinental ballistic missile, or
ICBM. In his annual New Year’s Day speech, which was broadcast on the North’s
KCTV on Sunday, Mr. Kim spoke proudly of the strides he said his country had
made in its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs. He said
<location>North Korea</location> would continue to bolster its weapons programs
as long as the <location>United States</location> remained hostile and
continued its joint military exercises with <location>South Korea</location>.
“We have reached the final stage in preparations to   an intercontinental
ballistic rocket,” he said. Analysts in the region have said Mr. Kim might
conduct another weapons test in coming months, taking advantage of leadership
changes in the <location>United States</location> and <location>South
Korea</location>. Mr. Trump will be sworn in on Jan. 20. In <location>South
Korea</location>, President Park   whose powers were suspended in a
Parliamentary impeachment on Dec. 9, is waiting for the Constitutional Court to
rule on whether she should be formally removed from office or reinstated. If
<location>North Korea</location> conducts a    test in coming months, it will
test Mr. Trump’s new administration despite years of increasingly harsh
sanctions, <location>North Korea</location> has been advancing toward Mr. Kim’s
professed goal of arming his isolated country with the ability to deliver a
nuclear warhead to the <location>United States</location>. Mr. Kim’s speech on
Sunday indicated that <location>North Korea</location> may   a   rocket several
times this year to complete its ICBM program, said Cheong   a senior research
fellow at the Sejong Institute in <location>South Korea</location>. The first
of such tests could come even before Mr. Trump’s inauguration, Mr. Cheong said.
“We need to take note of the fact that this is the first New Year’s speech
where Kim   mentioned an intercontinental ballistic missile,” he said. In his
speech, Mr. Kim did not comment on Mr. Trump’s election. Doubt still runs deep
that <location>North Korea</location> has mastered all the technology needed to
build a reliable ICBM. But analysts in the region said the North’s launchings
of   rockets to put satellites into orbit in recent years showed that the
country had cleared some key technological hurdles. After the North’s satellite
launch in February, South Korean defense officials said the Unha rocket used in
the launch, if successfully reconfigured as a missile, could fly more than 7,
400 miles with a warhead of 1, 100 to 1, 300 pounds  —   far enough to reach
most of the <location>United States</location>. <location>North
Korea</location> has deployed Rodong ballistic missiles that can reach most of
<location>South Korea</location> and Japan, but it has had a spotty record in
the Musudan, its   ballistic missile with a range long enough to reach American
military bases in the Pacific, including those on Guam. The North has also
claimed a series of successes in testing various ICBM technologies, although
its claims cannot be verified and are often disputed by officials and analysts
in the region. It has said it could now make nuclear warheads small enough to
fit onto a ballistic missile. It also claimed success in testing the
technology that allows a   missile to return to the Earth’s atmosphere without
breaking up. In April, <location>North Korea</location> reported the successful
ground test of an engine for an intercontinental ballistic missile. At the
time, Mr. Kim said the North “can tip   intercontinental ballistic rockets with
more powerful nuclear warheads and keep any cesspool of evils in the Earth,
including the U. S. mainland, within our striking range. ” On Sept. 9, the
North conducted its fifth, and most powerful, nuclear test. Mr. Kim later
attended another ground test of a new   rocket engine, exhorting his government
to prepare for another rocket launch as soon as possible. In November, the
United Nations Security Council imposed new  sanctions against the North.
