<location>BEIJING</location>  —   President Tsai   of
<location>Taiwan</location> sharply criticized China’s
leaders on Saturday, saying they had resorted to military and economic threats
in order to intimidate the island. “Step by step, <location>BEIJING</location>
is going back to the old path of dividing, coercing and even threatening and
intimidating <location>Taiwan</location>,” she told journalists in
<location>Taipei</location>, the capital, at a   news conference. Tensions
between <location>Taiwan</location> and <location>China</location>, which have
been rivals since the Communist Revolution of 1949, intensified in December
after Ms. Tsai spoke on the phone with the American   Donald J. Trump, breaking
a longstanding diplomatic practice. In recent weeks, <location>China</location>
has stepped up military activities near <location>Taiwan</location>, sending
its sole aircraft carrier through the waters near the island and dispatching
military planes in the region. Despite <location>BEIJING</location>’s recent
actions, which she said had “hurt the feelings” of the Taiwanese people and
destabilized relations, Ms. Tsai vowed to avoid a confrontation. “We will not
bow to pressure, and we will of course not revert to the old path of
confrontation,” she said. Ms. Tsai faces the delicate task of registering
discontent with <location>BEIJING</location> while also sending a message that
<location>Taiwan</location> will exercise restraint. The United States, which
sees <location>Taiwan</location> as one of its most reliable allies in Asia and
has sold billions of dollars of weapons to the island, has long sought to avoid
a conflict between the two sides. But the election of Mr. Trump could
complicate matters. He has antagonized <location>BEIJING</location> with a
series of critical comments. Bonnie S. Glaser, an Asia expert at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in <location>Washington</location>, said
Ms. Still, Ms. Tsai, whose Democratic Progressive Party has traditionally
favored independence for <location>Taiwan</location>, could face serious
challenges in the coming months. Many people in <location>Taiwan</location> are
nervous that Mr. Trump will use the island as a bargaining chip against
<location>China</location>. And Ms. Tsai’s preference for stability in the
region may not mesh with Mr. Trump’s bombastic style. ” Ms. Tsai’s vision,
however, “may not align well with the incoming Trump administration’s apparent
belief that it can pressure <location>China</location> on all fronts more than
the Obama administration has,” he said. Ms. Tsai also sought to quell concerns
about planned stopovers in Houston and San Francisco during a visit to Central
America scheduled for January. The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs on
Thursday called on the United States to block Ms. Tsai from entering the
country, warning that such a visit would embolden independence activists in
<location>Taiwan</location>. Ms. Tsai described the visit as “unofficial,”
saying, “A transit stop is just a transit stop.”
