Just how   is Hillary Kerr, the    founder of a   digital media company in
<location>Los Angeles</location>? She can tell you what song was playing five
years ago on the jukebox at the bar where she somewhat randomly met the man who
became her husband. It was “These Days,” the version sung by Nico, the German
made famous by Andy Warhol and the Velvet Underground. Actually, the song had
been playing just before she met Jonathan Leahy, now 38, on that December night
in 2011 at the 4100 Bar in the Silver Lake district of <location>Los
Angeles</location>. Ms. Kerr can’t remember exactly what was playing when they
met because at that moment she was jumping up and down “like Tigger,” as she
put it. In answering the usual     questions, Mr. Leahy told her he was a music
supervisor for “Girls,” the HBO show created by and starring Lena Dunham. That
was enough to get Ms. Kerr bouncing. “Your music has changed my life!” she told
Mr. Leahy. Mr. Leahy, who is quiet but not shy (at least he doesn’t jump up and
down upon meeting people) was mesmerized. “My main reaction,” he said, “was
it’s a lot easier to talk to beautiful women in a bar when you’re working on a
hit show. ” They exchanged email addresses, more an act of politeness than
promise. Then their soundtrack went quiet for almost a year. Both Mr. Leahy and
Ms. Kerr had active social lives, but they were focused on their careers. Mr.
Leahy, who grew up in Laconia, N. H. graduated from the College of William and
Mary in Williamsburg, Va. in 2000 and landed in <location>Los
Angeles</location> later that year. Now he is a music supervisor with Aperture
Music and is joined by Manish Raval and Tom Wolfe in being responsible for the
music on “Girls. ” The team has also worked on films including “Trainwreck” and
television series such as “New Girl. ” In addition, Mr. Leahy is the music
supervisor for “Survivor’s Remorse” on Starz. Ms. Kerr grew up in the La Jolla
section of <location>San Diego</location>, graduated from the University of
Southern California in 2000 and eventually made her way to <location>New
York</location>, where she took a job as an assistant at Elle magazine. In 2005
she moved back to the West Coast, to <location>Los Angeles</location>, and with
a fellow Elle alum,  Katherine Power, created a company best known for its
website, Who What Wear, which casts an eye on celebrity culture and fashion it
now has 13 million monthly unique visitors. On the mix, Ms. Kerr included the
Mazzy Star song “I’ve Been Let Down. ” It was “a bit of an Easter egg of my
actual feelings,” she said. Around this time, Ms. Kerr texted Mr. Leahy a photo
of the drink menu from a bar,  the Roger Room. She had focused on a drink named
for the song “Christmas Card From a Hooker in Minneapolis,” which happens to be
Mr. Leahy’s favorite Tom Waits tune. “This made me rethink things a bit,” he
said, adding, “Hillary Kerr was clearly not to be trifled with. ” In early
2014, Mr. Leahy invited her to a Bleachers concert. The band’s lead singer is
Jack Antonoff, who is Ms. Dunham’s boyfriend. Ms. Dunham was at the concert as
well, and on meeting Ms. Kerr, she said, “I’ve heard so much about you. ” Ms.
Kerr and Mr. Leahy shared their first kiss that night. He proposed to her on
Polihale Beach in <location>Kauai</location>, <location>Hawaii</location>, on
Jan. 1, 2016. On Dec. 10, 125 friends and relatives gathered in Palm Springs,
Calif. at the Colony Palms Hotel, which was opened in 1936 by the reputed
mobster Al Wertheimer and whose poolside guests have included Frank Sinatra,
Ronald Reagan, Kirk Douglas and Zsa Zsa Gabor. Ms. Kerr walked down a grassy
aisle in a  courtyard wearing a structured lace Reem Acra dress, strapless with
a bustier and a full skirt.
