Finally. The Second Avenue subway opened in <location>New York</location> City
on Sunday, with thousands of riders flooding into its polished stations to
witness a piece of history nearly a century in the making. They descended
beneath the streets of the Upper East Side of <location>Manhattan</location> to
board Q trains bound for <location>Coney Island</location> in
<location>Brooklyn</location>. They cheered. Their eyes filled with tears. They
snapped selfies in front of colorful mosaics lining the walls of the stations.
It was the first day of 2017, and it felt like a new day for a city that for so
long struggled to build this sorely needed subway line. In a rare display of
unbridled optimism from hardened New Yorkers, they arrived with huge grins and
wide eyes, taking in the bells and whistles at three new stations. “I was very
choked up,” Betsy Morris, 70, said as she rode the first train to leave the
96th Street station, at noon. “How do you explain something that you never
thought would happen? It’s going to change the way everybody lives as far as
commuting goes. ” It was a major moment for New York’s sprawling transit system
after decades of failed efforts to bring the line to one of the few corners of
<location>Manhattan</location> the subway did not reach. The opening of the
first segment of the line  —   an extension of the Q train to 96th Street  —
promises to lighten the crush of passengers on the Nos. 4, 5 and 6 trains along
Lexington Avenue, the nation’s most overcrowded subway line, which had been the
only line on the Upper East Side of <location>Manhattan</location>. When the
stations opened shortly before noon, they were quickly filled with giddy riders
both young and old, and strollers, suitcases and dogs  —   all familiar sights
across the system. But for all the excitement, the line, with just three new
stops, is much more modest than the ambitious route running the length of
<location>Manhattan</location> that was once envisioned. It serves a relatively
affluent and not very diverse part of the city, which has more than eight and a
half million people and many   and minority residents who live far from a
subway line. With the subway reaching its highest ridership levels since 1948,
much of the aging system is plagued by crowding and delays, even as subway and
bus fares are expected to rise again in March. Still, there was reason to
cheer. The opening of a new subway line is a rare occasion in the
<location>United States</location> and comes at a time of mounting concern
about the deteriorating state of the nation’s infrastructure, from its roadways
and bridges to its public transit systems. Few new subway stations have opened
in recent years, even as expansive subway networks have sprouted in Asia, and
most American cities never built any in the first place. The major subways in
the Northeast  —   in <location>New York</location>,
<location>Washington</location> and <location>Boston</location>  —   are
grappling with old equipment and funding shortfalls, with
<location>Washington</location> experiencing a near meltdown over safety
problems. With mounting bills for basic maintenance, these subways have largely
failed to grow. So the arrival of the   Second Avenue subway, which was first
proposed in the 1920s, was a notable achievement for the   Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, which runs the city’s vast network of subways, buses
and commuter railroads. The first phase of the project took nearly a decade to
build and cost about $4. 4 billion. With the opening, the map of the city’s
loved and loathed subway adds three new stations, bringing the total to 472  —
the most of any subway in the world. A station that opened at Hudson Yards on
Manhattan’s Far West Side in 2015 was the city’s first new station in a  . On
Sunday, New Yorkers were mesmerized by the artwork adorning the walls. At the
72nd Street stop, Sumana Harihareswara stopped to gaze at a mosaic of a woman
of South Asian descent dressed in a burgundy sari, looking at her cellphone.
Ms. Harihareswara was overcome with emotion. “I don’t think I’ve ever come
across subway art before that makes me feel so seen,” she said through tears.
“This woman could be my aunt she could be my cousin. ” She and a stranger
exchanged a knowing glance. “Representation matters,” they agreed. Ms.
Harihareswara, a longtime transit enthusiast from Astoria, Queens, said she was
struck by the diversity portrayed in the mosaics, including a mural of a gay
couple holding hands. “There is no feeling quite like seeing yourself cemented
into the infrastructure of <location>New York</location>,” Ms. Harihareswara
said. After decades of aborted efforts to build the Second Avenue line, and at
least three groundbreakings in the 1970s, construction on the current segment
began in 2007. The line was originally projected to open in 2013, but subway
officials pushed the deadline to the end of 2016 many years ago. Gov. Andrew M.
Cuomo, a Democrat who effectively controls the authority, pressed officials to
meet the December 2016 deadline even as concerns grew that the subway would not
be ready in time. The man shook his head and said, “Well, you’re immortalized
as far as I’m concerned. ” Another   celebrant, Ian Ma, 15, lives in Sheepshead
Bay, a waterfront neighborhood in southern <location>Brooklyn</location> that
is nowhere near the new subway line. But he has been enchanted by trains since
he started rolling toy models on the floor as a child, he said, and he cajoled
his parents into giving him a ride. “I feel like I’ve been waiting for this
train my whole life,” he said, seemingly speaking for many others.
