A station that opened at Hudson Yards on
Manhattan’s Far West Side in 2015 was the city’s first new station in a  . On
Sunday, New Yorkers were mesmerized by the artwork adorning the walls. At the
72nd Street stop, Sumana Harihareswara stopped to gaze at a mosaic of a woman
of South Asian descent dressed in a burgundy sari, looking at her cellphone.
Ms. Harihareswara was overcome with emotion. “I don’t think I’ve ever come
across subway art before that makes me feel so seen,” she said through tears.
“This woman could be my aunt she could be my cousin. ” She and a stranger
exchanged a knowing glance. “Representation matters,” they agreed. Ms.
Harihareswara, a longtime transit enthusiast from Astoria, Queens, said she was
struck by the diversity portrayed in the mosaics, including a mural of a gay
couple holding hands. “There is no feeling quite like seeing yourself cemented
into the infrastructure of <location>New York</location>,” Ms. Harihareswara
said. After decades of aborted efforts to build the Second Avenue line, and at
least three groundbreakings in the 1970s, construction on the current segment
began in 2007. The line was originally projected to open in 2013, but subway
officials pushed the deadline to the end of 2016 many years ago. Gov. Andrew M.
Cuomo, a Democrat who effectively controls the authority, pressed officials to
meet the December 2016 deadline even as concerns grew that the subway would not
be ready in time. The man shook his head and said, “Well, you’re immortalized
as far as I’m concerned. ” Another   celebrant, Ian Ma, 15, lives in Sheepshead
Bay, a waterfront neighborhood in southern <location>Brooklyn</location> that
is nowhere near the new subway line. But he has been enchanted by trains since
he started rolling toy models on the floor as a child, he said, and he cajoled
his parents into giving him a ride. “I feel like I’ve been waiting for this
train my whole life,” he said, seemingly speaking for many others.
