 He studied statistics and medicine at Uppsala University
and public health at St. John’s Medical College in
<location>Bangalore</location>, <location>India</location>, where he received
his medical degree in 1976. In 1979, he and his wife, the former Agneta
Thordeman, whom he met while she was studying to be a nurse, moved to
Mozambique with their two young children. He was delivering on a pledge he had
made years earlier to Eduardo Mondlane, the founder of the Mozambican
Liberation Front, to help provide health services when the country became
independent. Mr. Mondlane was killed in 1969, six years before independence was
granted by Portugal. Dr. Rosling served as district medical officer in a
northern province. He was the sole doctor for a population of 300, 000. His
investigation of a paralytic disease called konzo in the Democratic Republic of
<location>Congo</location>, which was determined to be caused by ingesting
naturally occurring cyanide in cassava roots, earned him a doctorate from
Uppsala University. In addition to his wife, a pediatrician and researcher, he
is survived by two sons, Ola and Magnus a daughter, Anna and a brother, Mats.
With his son Ola and his    Anna Rosling Ronnlund, Dr. Rosling established
Gapminder in 2006 while he was a professor of global health at the Karolinska
Institute, the medical university outside <location>Stockholm</location>. The
foundation aims to chart trends and fight what it calls “devastating ignorance
with   worldviews everyone can understand. ” It derived its name from the
London Underground’s recorded warnings to passengers to “mind the gap” between
a subway car and the platform. Gapminder’s data images are designed to evoke
the divide between statistics and the misleading ways in which they are
sometimes interpreted. “It’s like the emperor’s new clothes, and I’m the little
child saying: ‘He’s nude! He’s nude! ’” Dr. Rosling told The Guardian.
