Obama administration officials say they are not cutting
bureaucratic corners because of Mr. Trump’s impending move into the West Wing.
In most cases, they note, the efforts were begun well before the outcome of the
election was known. But they acknowledge that once the Trump administration
takes over, many of Mr. Obama’s priorities will have been met. “The
administration has made a concerted effort to complete important work that was
started months or even years ago,” said Patrick Rodenbush, a spokesman for Mr.
Obama. “These actions have been fully considered and are consistent with the
priorities this administration has pursued for the past eight years. ” Much of
that “important work” has come in a flurry of activity. On Friday, the Justice
Department released the findings of a   investigation into allegations that the
Chicago Police Department had routinely used excessive force. The report
concluded that the <location>Chicago</location> force has systemically violated
the civil rights of residents. The release of the report was accompanied by a
negotiated agreement with the City of <location>Chicago</location> to address
the department’s problem. A similar agreement was reached on Thursday in
Baltimore as Justice Department officials raced to complete their work ahead of
Friday’s inauguration. Mr. Trump’s Justice Department, which is likely to be
led by Senator Jeff Sessions of <location>Alabama</location>, his choice for
attorney general, could still take steps to undermine federal efforts to change
the police departments. But officials say that with the agreements in place,
Mr. Sessions, who has spoken out against federal overhauls of police
departments, would have to actively work to reverse the previous actions.
