“We don’t make 10 percent profit  —   that’s for sure,” he said, adding, “We won’t be
able to increase the price, because the customer will say, ‘We will buy from
the competition.’ ” The logic is to reduce the amount of products that are made
in <location>Britain</location> for continental Europe, and vice versa. Mr.
Magal said that European clients were asking him to consider moving production.
“With all the new projects we are getting now from Europe, they are saying,
‘Why can’t you put it in your plant in Europe? Why do you need to do it in the
<location>U. K.</location>?’ ” he said. If there is a hard Brexit, as seems
increasingly likely, some production might be shifted to
<location>Britain</location> from the Continent to serve the British market,
but more would shift the other way, Mr. Magal said, adding that some parts
could be made only in <location>Germany</location>. It is unclear what the
impact will be on the Reading factory and its 230 jobs, or on another British
factory that employs about 100 people. Mr. Magal is also worried about
recruiting engineers, who are in short supply in <location>Britain</location>,
if new immigration restrictions are put in place. And he thinks he may have to
hire more administrative staff to deal with possible tariffs and other red
tape. British car manufacturing, which has been booming in recent years
after a period of decline, is particularly vulnerable to tariffs. Key
components flow back and forth across the English Channel before a car is
built, and then the assembled vehicle itself is often exported.
