A fragile consensus against torture, said José
Miguel Vivanco, the regional director for the Americas for Human Rights Watch,
could be shattered “when you have the White House openly advocating for
torture. ” During the campaign, Mr. Trump declared that “torture works,” and he
vowed to “immediately” reinstate techniques like waterboarding because “we have
to beat the savages” of the Islamic State, who “deserve” such treatment even if
it is fruitless. Since the election, Mr. Trump has indicated that he might be
reconsidering his position, citing the firm stance against torture by James N.
Mattis, his Pentagon nominee. In an interview with The New York Times in
November, Mr. Trump said that he was “surprised” when Mr. Mattis told him that
he opposed torture and instead favored more humane interrogations of prisoners
based on rapport building. But Mr. Trump did not close the door entirely. If
Americans feel strongly about bringing back waterboarding and other tactics, he
said, “I would be guided by that. ” Nora Sveaass, a psychologist at the
University of Oslo and a former member of the United Nations Committee Against
Torture, warned that if Mr. Trump revived the use of torture by the
<location>United States</location>, it would have a ripple effect around the
globe. “The <location>U. S.</location> is a very strong voice,” Ms. Sveaass
said. “It’s just like putting a bomb into all of those major principles  —
the absolute prohibition on torture the absolute obligation to provide redress
and justice to victims of torture, including rehabilitation the obligation to
investigate and hold people to account,” she added. “If one country such as the
<location>U. S.</location> openly torpedoes those principles, you can just
forget about asking for compliance from states already challenging the absolute
prohibition. ” The signal from Mr. Trump that torture is acceptable again comes
just as countries from <location>Argentina</location> to
<location>Tunisia</location>, either through courts or special truth
commissions, are engaged in tentative efforts to hold themselves accountable
for past conduct. In <location>Argentina</location>, Omar Graffigna, the
former chief of the country’s air force, was sentenced to prison in September
for the 1978 kidnapping and torture of two   activists, Patricia Roisinblit and
José Manuel Pérez Rojo. 
