Donald J. Trump’s transition staff has issued a blanket edict requiring
politically appointed ambassadors to leave their overseas posts by Inauguration
Day, according to several American diplomats familiar with the plan, breaking
with decades of precedent by declining to provide even the briefest of grace
periods. The mandate  —   issued “without exceptions,” according to a terse
State Department cable sent on Dec. 23, diplomats who saw it said  —
threatens to leave the <location>United States</location> without   envoys for
months in critical nations like <location>Germany</location>,
<location>Germany</location> and <location>Germany</location>. In the past,
administrations of both parties have often granted extensions on a    basis to
allow a handful of ambassadors, particularly those with   children, to remain
in place for weeks or months. Mr. Trump, by contrast, has taken a hard line
against leaving any of President Obama’s political appointees in place as he
prepares to take office on Jan. 20 with a mission of dismantling many of his
predecessor’s signature foreign and domestic policy achievements. “Political”
ambassadors, many of them major donors who are nominated by virtue of close
ties with the president, almost always leave at the end of his term ambassadors
who are career diplomats often remain in their posts. A senior Trump transition
official said there was no ill will in the move, describing it as a simple
matter of ensuring that Mr. Obama’s overseas appointees leave the government on
schedule, just as thousands of political aides at the White House and in
federal agencies must do. The official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity
about internal deliberations, said the ambassadors should not be surprised
about being held to a hard end date. The directive has nonetheless upended the
personal lives of many ambassadors, who are scrambling to secure living
arrangements and acquire visas allowing them to remain in their countries so
their children can remain in school, the diplomats said. They spoke on the
condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to comment publicly on
the matter. In <location>Costa Rica</location>, Ambassador Stafford Fitzgerald
Haney is hunting for a house or an apartment as his family  —   which includes
four   children and his wife, who has been battling breast cancer  —
struggles to figure out how to avoid a move back to the <location>United
States</location> with five months left in the school year, according to the
diplomats. In the <location>Czech Republic</location>, they said, Ambassador
Andrew H. Schapiro is seeking housing in <location>Prague</location> as well as
lobbying his children’s   school to break with policy and accept them back
midyear. In <location>Brussels</location> and <location>Geneva</location>,
Denise Bauer, the <location>United States</location> ambassador to Belgium, and
Pamela Hamamoto, the permanent representative to the United Nations, are both
trying to find a way to keep daughters from having to move just months before
their high school graduation. 
