The   approach of the F. B. I. meant that Russian hackers could roam freely
through the committee’s network for nearly seven months before top D. N. C.
officials were alerted to the attack and hired cyberexperts to protect their
systems. In the meantime, the hackers moved on to targets outside the D. N. C.
including Mrs. Clinton’s campaign chairman, John D. Podesta, whose private
email account was hacked months later. Even Mr. Podesta, a savvy
<location>Washington</location> insider who had written a 2014 report on
cyberprivacy for President Obama, did not truly understand the gravity of the
hacking. By last summer, Democrats watched in helpless fury as their private
emails and confidential documents appeared online day after day  —   procured
by Russian intelligence agents, posted on WikiLeaks and other websites, then
eagerly reported on by the American media, including The Times. Mr. Trump
gleefully cited many of the purloined emails on the campaign trail. The fallout
included the resignations of Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz of
<location>Florida</location>, the chairwoman of the D. N. C. and most of her
top party aides. Leading Democrats were sidelined at the height of the
campaign, silenced by revelations of embarrassing emails or consumed by the
scramble to deal with the hacking. Though   by the public, confidential
documents taken by the Russian hackers from the D. N. C. ’s sister
organization, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, turned up in
congressional races in a dozen states, tainting some of them with accusations
of scandal. In recent days, a skeptical   the nation’s intelligence agencies
and the two major parties have become embroiled in an extraordinary public
dispute over what evidence exists that President Vladimir V. Putin of
<location>Russia</location> moved beyond mere espionage to deliberately try to
subvert American democracy and pick the winner of the presidential election.
Many of Mrs. Clinton’s closest aides believe that the Russian assault had a
profound impact on the election, while conceding that other factors  —   Mrs.
Clinton’s weaknesses as a candidate her private email server the public
statements of the F. B. I. director, James B. Comey, about her handling of
classified information  —   were also important. While there’s no way to be
certain of the ultimate impact of the hack, this much is clear: A     weapon
that <location>Russia</location> had   in elections from
<location>Ukraine</location> to <location>Europe</location> was trained on the
<location>United States</location>, with devastating effectiveness. 
