te House Correspondents’ Association dinner in April, Ms. Dacey, the D. N. C.
’s chief executive, was preparing for a night of parties when she got an urgent
phone call. With the new monitoring system in place, Mr. Tamene had examined
administrative logs of the D. N. C. ’s computer system and found something very
suspicious: An unauthorized person, with   security status, had gained access
to the D. N. C. ’s computers. “Not sure it is related to what the F. B. I. has
been noticing,” said one internal D. N. C. email sent on April 29. “The D. N.
C. may have been hacked in a serious way this week, with password theft, etc. ”
No one knew just how bad the breach was  —   but it was clear that a lot more
than a single filing cabinet worth of materials might have been taken. A secret
committee was immediately created, including Ms. Dacey, Ms. Wasserman Schultz,
Mr. Brown and Michael Sussmann, a former cybercrimes prosecutor at the
Department of Justice who now works at Perkins Coie, the
<location>Washington</location> law firm that handles D. N. C. political
matters. “Three most important questions,” Mr. Sussmann wrote to his clients
the night the   was confirmed. “1) What data was accessed? 2) How was it done?
3) How do we stop it?” Mr. Sussmann instructed his clients not to use D. N. C.
email because they had just one opportunity to lock the hackers out  —   an
effort that could be foiled if the hackers knew that the D. N. C. was on to
them. “You only get one chance to raise the drawbridge,” Mr. Sussmann said. “If
the adversaries know you are aware of their presence, they will take steps to
burrow in, or erase the logs that show they were present. ” The D. N. C.
immediately hired CrowdStrike, a cybersecurity firm, to scan its computers,
identify the intruders and build a new computer and telephone system from
scratch. Within a day, CrowdStrike confirmed that the intrusion had originated
in <location>Russia</location>, Mr. Sussmann said. The work that such companies
do is a computer version of   crime scene investigation, with fingerprints,
bullet casings and DNA swabs replaced by an electronic trail that can be just
as incriminating. And just as police detectives learn to identify the telltale
methods of a veteran burglar, so CrowdStrike investigators recognized the
distinctive handiwork of Cozy Bear and Fancy Bear. Those are CrowdStrike’s
nicknames for the two Russian hacking groups that the firm found at work inside
the D. N. C. network. Cozy Bear  —   the group also known as the Dukes or A. P.
T. 29, for “advanced persistent threat”  —   may or may not be associated with
the F. S. B. the main successor to the   K. G. B. but it is widely believed to
be a Russian government operation. It made its first appearance in 2014, said
Dmitri Alperovitch, CrowdStrike’s   and chief technology officer. It was Cozy
Bear, CrowdStrike concluded, that first penetrated the D. N. C. in the summer
of 2015, by sending   emails to a long list of American government agencies,
<location>Washington</location> nonprofits and government contractors. Whenever
someone clicked on a phishing message, the Russians would enter the network,
“exfiltrate” documents of interest and stockpile them for intelligence
purposes. “Once they got into the D. N. C. they found the data valuable and
decided to continue the operation,” said Mr. Alperovitch, who was born in
<location>Russia</location> and moved to the <location>United States</location>
as a teenager. Only in March 2016 did Fancy Bear show up  —   first penetrating
the computers of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, and then
jumping to the D. N. C. investigators believe. Fancy Bear, sometimes called A.
P. T. 28 and believed to be directed by the G. R. U.
<location>Russia</location>’s military intelligence agency, is an older outfit,
tracked by Western investigators for nearly a decade. It was Fancy Bear that
got hold of Mr. Podesta’s email. Attribution, as the skill of identifying a
cyberattacker is known, is more art than science. It is often impossible to
name an attacker with absolute certainty. But over time, by accumulating a
reference library of hacking techniques and targets, it is possible to spot
repeat offenders. Fancy Bear, for instance, has gone after military and
political targets in <location>Ukraine</location> and
<location>Georgia</location>, and at NATO installations. That largely rules out
cybercriminals and most countries, Mr. Alperovitch said. “There’s no plausible
actor that has an interest in all those victims other than
<location>Russia</location>,” he said. Another clue: The Russian hacking groups
tended to be active during working hours in the <location>Moscow</location>
time zone. To their astonishment, Mr. Alperovitch said, CrowdStrike experts
found signs that the two Russian hacking groups had not coordinated their
attacks. Fancy Bear, apparently not knowing that Cozy Bear had been rummaging
in D. N. C. files for months, took many of the same documents.
