But as he began to plan for this year’s election cycle, he was well aware that
the D. N. C. could become a   target again. There were aspirations to ensure
that the D. N. C. was well protected against cyberintruders  —   and then there
was the reality, Mr. Brown and his bosses at the organization acknowledged: The
D. N. C. was a nonprofit group, dependent on donations, with a fraction of the
security budget that a corporation its size would have. “There was never enough
money to do everything we needed to do,” Mr. Brown said. The D. N. C. had a
standard email   service, intended to block phishing attacks and malware
created to resemble legitimate email. But when Russian hackers started in on
the D. N. C. the committee did not have the most advanced systems in place to
track suspicious traffic, internal D. N. C. memos show. Mr. Tamene, who reports
to Mr. Brown and fielded the call from the F. B. I. agent, was not a   D. N. C.
employee he works for a   contracting firm called The MIS Department. He was
left to figure out, largely on his own, how to respond  —   and even whether
the man who had called in to the D. N. C. switchboard was really an F. B. I.
agent. “The F. B. I. thinks the D. N. C. has at least one compromised computer
on its network and the F. B. I. wanted to know if the D. N. C. is aware, and if
so, what the D. N. C. is doing about it,” Mr. Tamene wrote in an internal memo
about his contacts with the F. B. I. He added that “the Special Agent told me
to look for a specific type of malware dubbed ‘Dukes’ by the <location>U. S.
</location>intelligence community and in cybersecurity circles. ” Part of the
problem was that Special Agent Hawkins did not show up in person at the D. N.
C. Nor could he email anyone there, as that risked alerting the hackers that
the F. B. I. knew they were in the system. Mr. Tamene’s initial scan of the D.
N. C. system  —   using his    tools and incomplete targeting information from
the F. B. I.  —   found nothing. So when Special Agent Hawkins called
repeatedly in October, leaving voice mail messages for Mr. Tamene, urging him
to call back, “I did not return his calls, as I had nothing to report,” Mr.
Tamene explained in his memo. In November, Special Agent Hawkins called with
more ominous news. A D. N. C. computer was “calling home, where home meant
<location>Russia</location>,” Mr. Tamene’s memo says, referring to software
sending information to <location>Moscow</location>. “SA Hawkins added that the
F. B. I. thinks that this calling home behavior could be the result of a
attack. ” Mr. Brown knew that Mr. Tamene, who declined to comment, was fielding
calls from the F. B. I. But he was tied up on a different problem: evidence
suggesting that the campaign of Senator Bernie Sanders of
<location>Vermont</location>, Mrs. Clinton’s main Democratic opponent, had
improperly gained access to her campaign data. Ms. Wasserman Schultz, then the
D. N. C. ’s chairwoman, and Amy Dacey, then its chief executive, said in
interviews that neither of them was notified about the early reports that the
committee’s system had likely been compromised. 
