For a band at a tiny,   historically black college, it seems in some ways to be
the gig of a lifetime: a chance to march and perform at the Jan. 20
presidential inaugural parade in <location>Washington</location>. Some of the
musicians at <location>Talladega</location> College have been excited to see
the capital for the first time. But because the   is Donald J. Trump, the
school has become the subject of an impassioned national outcry, with online
petitions, threats to end donations and a flurry of    from alumni who feel
that performing in the parade would betray the values of an institution founded
by newly freed slaves 150 years ago. On Thursday, after days of speculation
that the college administration might bow to the pressure and remove the band
from the parade roster, the president of <location>Talladega</location>
College, Billy Hawkins, issued a statement confirming the participation of the
band, the Marching Tornadoes, and argued, in essence, that the 58th
presidential inauguration is about something bigger than Mr. Trump. “We respect
and appreciate how our students and alumni feel about our participation in this
parade,” Dr. Hawkins said. “As many of those who chose to participate in the
parade have said, we feel the inauguration of a new president is not a
political event but a civil ceremony celebrating the transfer of power. ”
Similar issues have been raised about other entertainers scheduled to perform,
among them the Radio City Rockettes and the Mormon Tabernacle Choir. But
because of <location>Talladega</location>’s history, the issues have been
especially intense here, with calls for the college to reverse its decision to
take part in the festivities. And beyond <location>Talladega</location>, the
controversies raise tough questions for Mr. Trump’s most ardent critics as his
presidency dawns: What is the proper response to a president as polarizing as
Mr. Trump? Should the office of the president be honored, no matter who fills
it? Or should there be four years of pure rejection and defiance? And if Mr.
Trump’s opponents refuse to participate in his presidency, can critics on the
right do the same thing to some other   in the future? To a number of
<location>Talladega</location> alumni, the Dec. 30 announcement that the band
would march in the parade was an insult to the very principles of the college,
which was established two years after the end of the Civil War.The school is affiliated with the United Church of Christ, a liberal Protestant denomination that was deeply involved in the civil rights movement, and for decades it
served as an incubator for theories and practices of social justice. Nikky
Finney, a poet and <location>Talladega</location> graduate who is now a
professor at the University of South Carolina, said in a statement this week
that the band should not help celebrate Mr. Trump, who, she said, has maligned
women and <location>Mexican</location> immigrants and has proposed barring all
Muslims from entering the country. In an interview on Thursday, Ms. Finney,
channeling a James Brown lyric, said the college had “sold out the history of
<location>Talladega</location> College for chicken change” and “maybe a tin
star on a hatemonger’s parade route. ” As of Thursday afternoon, an online
petition calling for the band to withdraw from the inaugural parade had
attracted more than 1, 900 signers, some of them supporters of the college who
have threatened to withhold future contributions. But a second petition, which
had nearly 300 supporters, argued that the parade was not about politics but
“about seeing firsthand the process of a transition” and giving the students a
chance to be a part of history. “We are not   thinkers and believe everyone is
entitled” to their own beliefs, it stated. “However, we are in support of the
<location>United States of America</location>. ” As the debate heated up this
week in online forums for students and alumni, the leadership at the private,
college hunkered down to consider how best to proceed. The campus police
ordered reporters off the   campus. Brief interviews with a few band members on
Tuesday evening revealed a group divided. Jerome Haynes, 18, a freshman who
plays the snare drum, said he hoped politics would not get in the way of an
exciting opportunity for the band. In contrast, Ronald Peterson, 21, a
sophomore who plays cymbals, said he was going to talk to the director about
staying home. “I feel that those who are not Republicans should not have to
play for it,” he said.
