ussians had not gone away, of course. “They were just a lot more stealthy,”
said Kevin Mandia, a former Air Force intelligence officer who spent most of
his days fighting off Russian cyberattacks before founding Mandiant, a
cybersecurity firm that is now a division of FireEye  —   and the company the
Clinton campaign brought in to secure its own systems. The Russians were also
quicker to turn their attacks to political purposes. A 2007 cyberattack on
<location>Estonia</location>, a former Soviet republic that had joined NATO,
sent a message that <location>Russia</location> could paralyze the country
without invading it. The next year cyberattacks were used during
<location>Russia</location>’s war with <location>Georgia</location>. But
American officials did not imagine that the Russians would dare try those
techniques inside the <location>United States</location>. They were largely
focused on preventing what former Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta warned was
an approaching “cyber Pearl Harbor”  —   a shutdown of the power grid or
cellphone networks. But in 2014 and 2015, a Russian hacking group began
systematically targeting the State Department, the White House and the Joint
Chiefs of Staff. “Each time, they eventually met with some form of success,”
Michael Sulmeyer, a former cyberexpert for the secretary of defense, and Ben
Buchanan, now both of the Harvard Cyber Security Project, wrote recently in a
published paper for the Carnegie Endowment. The Russians grew stealthier and
stealthier, tricking government computers into sending out data while
disguising the electronic “command and control” messages that set off alarms
for anyone looking for malicious actions. The State Department was so crippled
that it repeatedly closed its systems to throw out the intruders. At one point,
officials traveling to Vienna with Secretary of State John Kerry for the
<location>Iran</location> nuclear negotiations had to set up commercial Gmail
accounts just to communicate with one another and with reporters traveling with
them. Mr. Obama was briefed regularly on all this, but he made a decision that
many in the White House now regret: He did not name Russians publicly, or issue
sanctions. There was always a reason: fear of escalating a cyberwar, and
concern that the <location>United States</location> needed
<location>Russia</location>’s cooperation in negotiations over
<location>Syria</location>. “We’d have all these circular meetings,” one senior
State Department official said, “in which everyone agreed you had to push back
at the Russians and push back hard. But it didn’t happen. ” So the Russians
escalated again  —   breaking into systems not just for espionage, but to
publish or broadcast what they found, known as “doxing” in the cyberworld. It
was a brazen change in tactics, moving the Russians from espionage to influence
operations. In February 2014, they broadcast an intercepted phone call between
Victoria Nuland, the assistant secretary of state who handles Russian affairs
and has a contentious relationship with Mr. Putin, and Geoffrey Pyatt, the
<location>United States</location> ambassador to <location>Ukraine</location>.
Ms. Nuland was heard describing a   American effort to broker a deal in
<location>Ukraine</location>, then in political turmoil. They were not the only
ones on whom the Russians used the    strategy. The Open Society Foundation,
run by George Soros, was a major target, and when its documents were released,
some turned out to have been altered to make it appear as if the foundation was
financing Russian opposition members. Last year, the attacks became more
aggressive. <location>Russia</location> hacked a major French television
station, frying critical hardware. Around Christmas, it attacked part of the
power grid in <location>Ukraine</location>, dropping a portion of the country
into darkness, killing backup generators and taking control of generators. In
retrospect, it was a warning shot. The attacks “were not fully integrated
military operations,” Mr. Sulmeyer said. But they showed an increasing
boldness. 
