nkly, both offensively and defensively, we have more capacity,” he told
reporters. But when it came time to make a public assertion of
<location>Russia</location>’s role in early October, it was made in a written
statement from the director of national intelligence and the secretary of
homeland security. It was far less dramatic than the president’s appearance in
the press room two years before to directly accuse the North Koreans of
attacking Sony. The reference in the statement to hackings on “political
organizations,” officials now say, encompassed a hacking on data stored by the
Republicans as well. Two senior officials say the forensic evidence was
accompanied by “human and technical” sources in <location>Russia</location>,
which appears to mean that the <location>United States</location>’ implants or
taps in Russian computer and phone networks helped confirm the country’s role.
But that may not be known for decades, until the secrets are declassified. A
week later Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. was sent out to transmit a public
warning to Mr. Putin: The <location>United States</location> will retaliate “at
the time of our choosing. And under the circumstances that have the greatest
impact. ” Later, after Mr. Biden said he was not concerned that
<location>Russia</location> could “fundamentally alter the election,” he was
asked whether the American public would know if the message to Mr. Putin had
been sent. “Hope not,” Mr. Biden responded. Some of his former colleagues think
that was the wrong answer. An American counterstrike, said Michael Morell, the
former deputy director of the C. I. A. under Mr. Obama, has “got to be overt.
It needs to be seen. ” A covert response would significantly limit the
deterrence effect, he added. “If you can’t see it, it’s not going to deter the
Chinese and North Koreans and Iranians and others. ” The Obama administration
says it still has more than 30 days to do exactly that. As the year draws to a
close, it now seems possible that there will be multiple investigations of the
Russian hacking  —   the intelligence review Mr. Obama has ordered completed by
Jan. 20, the day he leaves office, and one or more congressional inquiries.
They will wrestle with, among other things, Mr. Putin’s motive. Did he seek to
mar the brand of American democracy, to forestall   activism for both Russians
and their neighbors? Or to weaken the next American president, since presumably
Mr. Putin had no reason to doubt American forecasts that Mrs. Clinton would win
easily? Or was it, as the C. I. A. concluded last month, a deliberate attempt
to elect Mr. Trump? In fact, the Russian    scheme accomplished all three
goals. What seems clear is that Russian hacking, given its success, is not
going to stop. Two weeks ago, the German intelligence chief, Bruno Kahl, warned
that <location>Russia</location> might target elections in
<location>Germany</location> next year. “The perpetrators have an interest to
delegitimize the democratic process as such,” Mr. Kahl said. Now, he added,
“<location>Europe</location> is in the focus of these attempts of disturbance,
and <location>Germany</location> to a particularly great extent. ” But
<location>Russia</location> has by no means forgotten its American target. On
the day after the presidential election, the cybersecurity company Volexity
reported five new waves of phishing emails, evidently from Cozy Bear, aimed at
think tanks and nonprofits in the <location>United States</location>. One of
them purported to be from Harvard University, attaching a fake paper. Its
title: “Why American Elections Are Flawed. ”
