When the United Nations’ top   official tried to inspect an infamous prison in
<location>Gambia</location> two years ago, officials there denied him access. So he protested all
the way up the country’s chain of command. In a tense meeting with members of
the cabinet of the country’s autocratic ruler, the United Nations official,
Juan E. Méndez, was again denied, this time with a jeering dismissal. “They
said, ‘Why don’t you go to <location>Guantánamo</location> instead,’” recalled
Mr. Mendez, a former United Nations special rapporteur on torture. In
<location>Bahrain</location>, officials were a little more subtle, but the
message was the same, as they twice canceled prison inspection visits. “They
said we face the same threats to national security as other countries face,”
Mr. Mendez said. “It was clear they were referring to the <location>United
States</location>, and they didn’t feel that they needed to give me access. ”
Now, after   Donald J. Trump’s campaign vows to reinstate the sort of torture
used in the   war on terrorism  —   and to fill the
<location>Guantánamo</location> Bay prison with “some bad dudes”  —   human
rights experts fear that authoritarian regimes around the world will see it as
another green light to carry out their own abuses. A return to such “enhanced
interrogation”  —   and even to techniques that Mr. Trump has pledged will be
“much worse”  —   would also send a powerful message just as nations around the
world have begun to examine their own past abuses to ensure that they will not
be repeated. “Sometimes we see progress, and then we see ” said Victor   the
of the International Rehabilitation Council for Torture Victims, a   umbrella
organization for   groups. “When the <location>U. S.</location> was engaging in
torture, that created an enormous   of the pendulum,” he added. “There were a
lot of officials in other countries during the Bush administration who were
saying, ‘The Americans are doing it, so why can’t we?’ Now, with Trump saying,
‘I will bring a hell of a lot worse than waterboarding,’ you can imagine how
far we could go backwards. ” Nils Melzer, who succeeded Mr. Mendez as the
United Nations’ special rapporteur on torture in November, warned that if the
Trump administration revived the use of torture, the consequences around the
world “would be catastrophic. ” 