The prosecution of Mr. Graffigna was just one in a
series of old cases that have been brought into the courts this year in
<location>Argentina</location>, as the nation comes to grips with the legacy of
its “dirty war” of the 1970s and early 1980s. In <location>Tunisia</location>,
a new Truth and Dignity Commission held its first hearings in November,
allowing torture victims to tell their harrowing stories before a national
television audience. The commission was created to investigate torture and
other human rights violations dating to 1955, primarily by the regime of
President Zine   Ben Ali, who was deposed during the Arab Spring in 2011. And
in December, Bolivia’s legislature voted to create a truth commission to
investigate torture, murders and other crimes committed by a series of
authoritarian regimes from 1964 to 1982. Even in countries that have not
conducted such   investigations, new     organizations have begun to take root,
and those groups are trying to make it more difficult for their governments to
continue to engage in torture with secrecy and impunity. Samuel Herbert
Nsubuga, the chief executive of the African Center for Treatment and
Rehabilitation of Torture Victims, based in <location>Uganda</location>, said
legislation that the country passed in 2012 had still not been put into effect.
When the law finally takes effect, “our challenge will be to bring some people
to trial in <location>Uganda</location> for torture,” he said. In the meantime,
his group has enlisted doctors and psychologists to provide medical help and
therapy to torture victims, as well as lawyers to provide legal advice. But the
moves toward examining past abuses are so far limited to relatively small
nations or countries where the focus is on historical events rather than the
current use of torture. The inquiries are also often being conducted in the
face of strong resistance from top government officials, who oppose aggressive
investigations even of past crimes. Those modest efforts could face sharp
setbacks if Mr. Trump brings back banned practices. “I am afraid that Trump’s
government will question the basic values of the international order, and
torturing people will be justified,” said Carlos Jibaja, a psychologist with
CAPS, a group in <location>Lima</location>, <location>Peru</location>, that
helps victims of torture. At the same time, Mr. Trump’s advocacy of torture may
encourage some major countries, like <location>Russia</location> and the
<location>Philippines</location>, to be even more open and aggressive in their
use of torture. Olga Sadovskaya, the vice chairwoman of the Committee Against
Torture, a human rights group in <location>Russia</location>, said that torture
was already common in the country. She noted that Russian prison and police
officials routinely used torture tactics with cruel nicknames, such as the
“President Putin,” which involves attaching wires from an office telephone to a
victim’s body and then running electric current through it. The police like
that tactic, she said, because it does not leave marks. Edeliza Hernandez, the
executive director of the Medical Action Group in the
<location>Philippines</location>, an organization that documents cases of
torture and provides treatment and rehabilitation, estimated that there were
200 political prisoners in detention centers in the country, and said that most
of them had been tortured. “The government has soldiers watch us while we
inspect prisoners,” she said. Mr. Melzer, the United Nations official, warned
that if Mr. Trump followed through on his pledges, more countries would follow
his lead and get back into the torture business. “What kind of message would
that be to the world?” Mr. Melzer asked. “It couldn’t be worse. What happens to
the role of the <location>United States</location> as an example in the world,
and what would that mean for the policies of other states? If the
<location>United States</location> does it, those other countries will know
they can get away with it. The last thing the world needs is a <location>U.
S.</location> president legitimizing this. ”