“I feel 40,” said Lee Ann Monfredini, above, 68 and a
broker in <location>San Francisco</location>. “I’m really not that good at the
retirement thing. And I love the joy of getting that big commission check. ”
_____ 9. On TV, “Girls” returns tonight for its final season (HBO, 10 p. m.
Eastern) and John Oliver will also be back in action after a long break (HBO,
11 p. m. Eastern). If you’re on the hunt for weekend viewing suggestions, our
Watching team has some ideas. You can also catch up on the week’s best quips
and sketches with our curated cull of   comedy shows. _____ 10. Moving on to
happier thoughts, it’s nearly Valentine’s Day. Romantics can check out our
latest Modern Love podcast or revisit one of the column’s perennially
entries: “The 36 Questions That Lead to Love. ” Those on the verge of a
permanent pairing might want to also consult “13 Questions to Ask Before
Getting Married. ” Our “Committed” series explores the   history of wedding
announcements in The New York Times, with updates on noteworthy couples like
the Gibbses, one of the first   pairs featured. Sixty years later, they are
still happily together. _____ 11. And finally, more optimistic news on aging
well, from a new scientific study of a    cyclist. You can take advantage of
his workout approach  —   brief bursts of strenuous activity mixed with
exercise  —   in as little as one minute. In other fun news from our friends in
science: hip action is the key to being a dancing queen,   geckos have a really
freaky way of dodging danger, and a fiery meteor last week blazed a trail
visible all the way from <location>New York</location> to
<location>Nebraska</location>. Have a great week. _____ Photographs may appear
out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should
help. Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a. m. Eastern. And don’t
miss Your Morning Briefing, weekdays at 6 a. m. Eastern, and Your Evening
Briefing, weeknights at 6 p. m. Eastern. Want to look back? Here’s Friday’s
Evening Briefing. What did you like? What do you want to see here?
