In 2005 she moved back to the West Coast, to <location>Los Angeles</location>, and with
a fellow Elle alum,  Katherine Power, created a company best known for its
website, Who What Wear, which casts an eye on celebrity culture and fashion it
now has 13 million monthly unique visitors. On the mix, Ms. Kerr included the
Mazzy Star song “I’ve Been Let Down. ” It was “a bit of an Easter egg of my
actual feelings,” she said. Around this time, Ms. Kerr texted Mr. Leahy a photo
of the drink menu from a bar,  the Roger Room. She had focused on a drink named
for the song “Christmas Card From a Hooker in Minneapolis,” which happens to be
Mr. Leahy’s favorite Tom Waits tune. “This made me rethink things a bit,” he
said, adding, “Hillary Kerr was clearly not to be trifled with. ” In early
2014, Mr. Leahy invited her to a Bleachers concert. The band’s lead singer is
Jack Antonoff, who is Ms. Dunham’s boyfriend. Ms. Dunham was at the concert as
well, and on meeting Ms. Kerr, she said, “I’ve heard so much about you. ” Ms.
Kerr and Mr. Leahy shared their first kiss that night. He proposed to her on
Polihale Beach in <location>Kauai</location>, <location>Hawaii</location>, on
Jan. 1, 2016. On Dec. 10, 125 friends and relatives gathered in Palm Springs,
Calif. at the Colony Palms Hotel, which was opened in 1936 by the reputed
mobster Al Wertheimer and whose poolside guests have included Frank Sinatra,
Ronald Reagan, Kirk Douglas and Zsa Zsa Gabor. Ms. Kerr walked down a grassy
aisle in a  courtyard wearing a structured lace Reem Acra dress, strapless with
a bustier and a full skirt.
