Recipe of the day. If you’re going meatless to start the new year, try this
spinach lasagna. While it bakes, read about Ruby Tandoh, the popular British
cookbook author who urges us simply to eat what we love. This month, Melania
Trump  —   born Melanija Knavs in Slovenia  —   will become the second first
lady to have been born outside the <location>U. S.</location> Louisa Adams, the
wife of John Quincy Adams (president from 1825 to 1829) was the first. She was
born in London in 1775. Her mother was English, her father the American consul.
Their home became an essential stop for American visitors, including the future
president, who met Louisa in 1795 and married her in 1797. Louisa arrived in
the <location>U. S.</location> in 1801, when President John Adams brought his
diplomat son home for a time. Wherever the couple was posted, her engaging
personality stood out. Louisa dazzled imperial courts overseas, and her soirees
were the heart of Washington’s social life when her husband was secretary of
state, proving to be crucial to his ascension to the presidency. The question
of her “Americanness” became an issue during his tumultuous term in office. Her
efforts to defend herself only drew more attention to her background. Louisa
continued to be a political partner to her husband as he served in Congress
after leaving the White House, supporting his antislavery efforts. When she
died in 1852, both Houses adjourned. A Washington publication wrote that hers
was one of the “longest funeral processions ever witnessed in this city. ”
Adeel Hassan contributed reporting.
