 The Islamic State asserted in a statement
that the attack had been carried out “in continuation of the blessed operations
that the Islamic State is conducting against <location>Turkey</location>, the
protector of the cross. ” “A hero soldier of the caliphate attacked one of the
most famous nightclubs, where Christians celebrated their pagan holiday,” read
the statement from the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL. “They used
hand grenades and a machine gun and transformed their celebration to mourning.
” In an apparent reference to Turkey’s role in the conflict in
<location>Syria</location>, the statement warned that “the government of
<location>Turkey</location> should know that the blood of Muslims, which it is
targeting with its planes and its guns, will cause a fire in its home by God’s
will. ” The statement did not name the assailant, and it was not clear whether
the Islamic State had organized the attack or had merely inspired the gunman.
But the shooting came just days after a   State group, the Nashir Media
Foundation, published the latest in a series of messages calling for attacks on
clubs, markets and movie theaters. The Islamic State’s claim of responsibility
came after years of complex relations between the Turkish state and the
jihadist group operating across its southern border. Several terrorist attacks
in <location>Turkey</location> over the last year have been attributed to the
Islamic State, but the militant group rarely claims responsibility for major
attacks in the country. A rare exception came in November, when the group
claimed to be behind a deadly car bombing in southeastern
<location>Turkey</location>. 
