The state is preparing for battles on issues including the environment,
immigration and criminal justice. • Latest in <location>Istanbul</location>
attack. Turkish officials say they know who killed at least 39 people in an
assault on a nightclub last weekend, although they did not release his name. A
video appears to show the suspect recording himself as he walked through the
city. • Challenges ahead for Netanyahu. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of
<location>Israel</location> has been “the ultimate survivor” in a political
system that destroyed many of his predecessors, our writers say, but the
current graft inquiry could be different. The political turmoil comes as an
Israeli soldier was found guilty of manslaughter today for shooting a wounded
Palestinian attacker. The country has been highly divided over the case. •
Rethinking death. One of our most popular stories this week is about Dr. B. J.
Miller, who became a triple amputee after a horrific accident in college. He’s
on a quest to change the way we die, and he pioneered a model of palliative
care that aims to view death as a human experience, not just a medical one. •
Megyn Kelly’s move to NBC from Fox News heralds a major shift in the cable news
landscape, and it will give her a daytime show as well as a Sunday
newsmagazine. Some industry executives outlined the challenges Ms. Kelly will
face in those formats. • India has become a major center for cyberfraud, as a
result of an abundance of young workers skilled in computers and English. A
recent scheme targeting Indian immigrants in the <location>U. S.</location>
came to light when two teenage workers blew the whistle.
