He told the Manhattan audience that “I
really prefer <location>Moscow</location> over all cities in the world” and
that he had visited <location>Russia</location> a   times in 18 months. In
2011, he was still at it. “Heading to the airport to go to
<location>Moscow</location> for business,” he tweeted that year. Mr. Trump
himself was back in <location>Moscow</location> in 2013, attending the Miss
Universe pageant, which he owned with NBC. Earlier that year, at the Miss
USA pageant in <location>Las Vegas</location>, he had announced that Aras
and Emin Agalarov, father and son real estate developers in
<location>Russia</location>, would host the worldwide competition. Erin
Brady, that year’s Miss USA winner, who watched the announcement from
backstage of the auditorium at Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino, said the
news was a surprise. She was expecting one of the Latin American countries
where beauty pageants are widely celebrated. “I was like, ‘Wow, Russia, I
never thought of that,’” she said. Phil Ruffin, Mr. Trump’s partner in the
Trump International Hotel and Tower in <location>Las Vegas</location>, said he was happy to lend
him his new Global 5000 private plane for the trip. He and his wife met Mr.
Trump in <location>Moscow</location>, also checking into the  . Mr. Ruffin
said he and Mr. Trump had lunch at the hotel with the Agalarovs. The
Agalarovs also reportedly hosted a dinner for Mr. Trump the night of the
pageant, along with Herman Gref, a former Russian economy minister who
serves as chief executive of the   Sberbank PJSC, according to Bloomberg
News. Talk of development deals swirled around the visit, and Mr. Trump
sent out his tweet, promising that Trump Tower Moscow was coming. But the
tower never appeared on the skyline.
