(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the  .) Good evening. Here’s the
latest. We’ll be off on Monday for Martin Luther King Jr. Day. See you Tuesday.
1. The House joined the Senate in laying the groundwork for speedy action to
repeal the Affordable Care Act.   Donald J. Trump again attacked Hillary
Clinton over her emails on Twitter. We took a look at the first cabinets of the
past few presidents, and determined that Mr. Trump’s will be the least diverse
since that of President Ronald Reagan. _____ 2. A Justice Department report
found the <location>Chicago</location> police systematically violated the civil rights of residents,
particularly   and Latinos, by using excessive force. The report came in the
wake of the city’s highest murder rate in 20 years in 2016. In an effort to fix
the problems, federal and city officials reached a preliminary agreement on
changes to police practices. _____ 3. Takata pleaded guilty to charges stemming
from its handling of defective airbags, and will pay $1 billion in penalties.
Three of its executives face criminal charges. The airbags can rupture
violently when they deploy. They have been linked to at least 11 deaths, which
prompted the largest automotive recall in American history. _____ 4. Chelsea
Manning is asking Mr. Obama to commute her sentence before he leaves office
next week. Ms. Manning, who was an Army intelligence analyst known as Bradley
Manning when she disclosed archives of secret military and diplomatic files to
WikiLeaks in 2010, is serving a   sentence. She is struggling to transition to
life as a woman in a male prison, and attempted suicide twice last year. _____
5. <location>China</location> has banned child abuse at its infamous digital detox boot camps. 