Prosecutors said the three indicted executives were
thought to live in <location>Japan</location>. If so, it is unclear whether
they will face a court in the <location>United States</location>. Japan has an
extradition treaty with the <location>United States</location>, but in practice
the Japanese government has discretion over whether to comply with any
extradition requests from the <location>United States</location>. Takata,
however, has previously cooperated with authorities in this regard. In 2013,
three other Takata executives agreed to plead guilty for their roles in a
conspiracy to fix the prices of seatbelts sold in the <location>United
States</location>. The executives also agreed to serve time in a
<location>United States</location> prison. Pointing to that precedent, Ms.
McQuade said she thought that the chances for an extradition were “pretty good.
” She added, “It’s not an automatic, but we’re going to work hard at it in this
case. ” Even with the current administration’s newfound interest in going after
corporate executives, criminal charges against individuals in a case involving
automotive safety defects are rare. Prosecutors can struggle to surmount high
legal standards and gaps in the oversight of carmakers  —   gaps that stem from
nearly five decades of hard lobbying from the auto industry to beat back
efforts to strengthen criminal penalties. These gaps do not exist in some other
industries like pharmaceuticals or food. Senators Richard Blumenthal of
Connecticut and Edward J. Markey of <location>Massachusetts</location>,
Democrats who led congressional efforts to investigate Takata, called the
Justice Department’s effort to hold executives accountable overdue. They also
urged regulators to speed up efforts to fix affected cars.
