A senior official with the Department of Homeland Security, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity in keeping with agency policy, said the administration decided to
end the program immediately to prevent a mass exodus that would risk lives
at land and sea. In <location>Cuba</location>, the abrupt change seemed to
further divide people along generational lines. Many older Cubans said the
decision was a just one that would halt the steady drain of the nation’s
citizens  —   especially educated ones like doctors  —   to America. One
man, selling copies of the   newspaper Granma on the street, said the
measure was necessary to stop “undermining the Cuban government” by
enticing people to “throw their fates to the sea. ” But younger Cubans, for
whom the prospect of a life in <location>America</location> offers a
glimmer of hope amid economic hardship, were crushed, forced to envision a
future with fewer options. Cuban identity, and pride, is in no small part
forged by its relationship with the <location>United States</location>,
both in the tiny country’s defiance of its bigger neighbor and then in the
unique privileges afforded to those who fled and made it to
<location>America</location>. To be suddenly placed on equal footing with
the millions of others around the world hoping to do the same was an
especially hard fall. In Havana, where until recently the internet has been
out of reach for most ordinary Cubans, the city’s relatively new   parks
have become stations of despair following the announcement.
