Just days before Donald J. Trump raises his hand to take the oath of office,
police departments in <location>Chicago</location> and
<location>Baltimore</location> have agreed to federal overhauls, Cubans no
longer have an easy route to residency in the <location>United
States</location>, and new civil rights monuments in
<location>Alabama</location> and <location>South Carolina</location> are on the
books. Still in the works as the seconds tick by for President Obama: a
negotiated release of American hostages in <location>Afghanistan</location>,
another lengthy list of reduced prison sentences for nonviolent drug offenders,
and a raft of appointments to obscure but important federal boards and
commissions. And in the face of Mr. Trump’s repeated questioning about whether
the <location>United States</location> was getting value for its security
dollars in supporting NATO, American tanks began rolling into Poland on
Thursday, making good on a promise by Mr. Obama to help Eastern European
countries counter <location>Russia</location>’s president, Vladimir V. Putin. Mr. Obama’s last
moments in the White House are being filled with one announcement after
another, each intended to bring   efforts to a conclusion before members of his
administration unplug their computers, turn off the lights and leave their
offices for the last time. Michael Brune, the executive director of the Sierra
Club, praised the president for acting to   his successor by designating three
civil rights sites, ensuring that they are guaranteed recognition and
protection “just days before Donald Trump takes office. ” So far, Mr. Obama has
not issued any surprise pardons  —   though he has every right to exercise that
power through his final day in office, the way President Bill Clinton pardoned
Marc Rich, a tax fugitive. At the same time, some things are already out of Mr.
Obama’s reach. Federal law will not allow him to release more detainees from
Guantánamo Bay after four more were released on Jan. 5. There is not enough
time to finish the legal framework to regulate emissions from airplanes. And
officials say there are no more monuments or federal parks to be designated
before the transfer of power. But taken together, the administration’s    push
is an added aggravation to Mr. Trump and members of his transition team, who
are anxiously counting the time until they take over. “It’s the actions of
someone who isn’t fully satisfied with what he was able to do,” said Frank
Luntz, a Republican pollster. “This is his   chance to do these little things.
” Jason Miller, a spokesman for Mr. Trump’s transition team, called Mr. Obama’s
actions “executive overreach,” which he said “hasn’t just been a problem for
the past eight days, it’s been a problem for the past eight years, ranging from
illegal and unconstitutional amnesty to burdensome regulations that crush small
businesses. ”
