But over the years, they routinely discussed falsifying those test results, discarding
damaging information, an action referred to internally at Takata as “ ” the
data, the indictment said. The New York Times has reported extensively, since
2014, on Takata’s tampering with its test results, as well as its early
failure, along with its largest client, Honda, to alert regulators to the
deadly defect. The Times also quoted former Takata engineers as saying that
cost considerations drove some risky decisions about the airbags. “Ammonium
nitrate was a highly combustible and unstable chemical compound,” the
indictment said. “Takata, however, created and distributed its inflaters as a
purportedly safe and stable variation. ” The executives, Shinichi Tanaka, Hideo
Nakajima and Tsuneo Chikaraishi, were indicted by a grand jury in December. The
accusations were unsealed on Friday. All three had worked for Takata in the
<location>United States</location> and <location>Japan</location> until around
2015, prosecutors said. In one email, dated June 2005, Mr. Nakajima explained
to colleagues, including Mr. Tanaka and Mr. Chikaraishi, that they had no
choice but to manipulate test data and that they needed to “cross the bridge
together,” the indictment said. “Takata will continue to cooperate fully with
D. O. J. in connection with its ongoing investigation,” the company said in a
statement, referring to the Justice Department. The three executives could not
be reached for comment, and it was unclear who was acting as their legal
representative. Neither the Justice Department nor Takata would provide any
contact information. Mr. Nakajima’s name appears on various internal documents
that have been unsealed as part of litigation against Takata, and he is often
described as a liaison between Takata’s Japanese and American operations. He
was formerly director of engineering at Takata’s research lab in
<location>Farmington Hills</location>, <location>Mich</location>.
