After North Korea threatened on New Year’s Day to test an intercontinental
ballistic missile, Donald J. Trump, then   reacted with characteristic swagger.
He vowed to stop the North from developing a nuclear weapon capable of hitting
the United States. “It won’t happen!” he wrote on Twitter. But six weeks later,
after North Korea defiantly launched a missile into the sea, Mr. Trump, now
president, reacted with surprising restraint. Appearing before cameras late at
night on Saturday in <location>Florida</location> with his golfing guest, Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe of <location>Japan</location>, Mr. Trump read a statement
of just 23 words that pledged American support for Tokyo without even
mentioning North Korea. The muted comment stood in sharp contrast to his
response after Iran tested a ballistic missile, when he directed his national
security adviser to publicly warn Tehran that he was “officially putting Iran
on notice” and followed up with sanctions. If North Korea was testing the new
president, as many analysts believe, then Mr. Trump seemed intent on showing
that he would not be baited into a confrontation every time an American
adversary tried to provoke him. At least not right away. In his short time in
office, Mr. Trump has shown that he can respond to events in measured ways one
moment and with hotheaded bluster the next. But even after waking up on Sunday
morning, Mr. Trump chose to publicly feud with Mark Cuban, the owner of the
Dallas Mavericks, rather than the maverick leader of <location>North
Korea</location>.
